"let me have your name, and i will ask glinda if she will receive you."
they told who they were, and the girl soldier went into the castle.
after a few moments she came back to say that dorothy and the others
were to be admitted at once.




23.  glinda the good witch grants dorothy's wish


before they went to see glinda, however, they were taken to a room of
the castle, where dorothy washed her face and combed her hair, and the
lion shook the dust out of his mane, and the scarecrow patted himself
into his best shape, and the woodman polished his tin and oiled his
joints.

when they were all quite presentable they followed the soldier girl
into a big room where the witch glinda sat upon a throne of rubies.

she was both beautiful and young to their eyes.  her hair was a rich
red in color and fell in flowing ringlets over her shoulders.  her
dress was pure white but her eyes were blue, and they looked kindly
upon the little girl.

"what can i do for you, my child?" she asked.

dorothy told the witch all her story: how the cyclone had brought her
to the land of oz, how she had found her companions, and of the
wonderful adventures they had met with.

"my greatest wish now," she added, "is to get back to kansas, for aunt
em will surely think something dreadful has happened to me, and that
will make her put on mourning; and unless the crops are better this
year than they were last, i am sure uncle henry cannot afford it."

glinda leaned forward and kissed the sweet, upturned face of the loving
little girl.

"bless your dear heart," she said, "i am sure i can tell you of a way
to get back to kansas."  then she added, "but, if i do, you must give
me the golden cap."

"willingly!" exclaimed dorothy; "indeed, it is of no use to me now, and
when you have it you can command the winged monkeys three times."

"and i think i shall need their service just those three times,"
answered glinda, smiling.

dorothy then gave her the golden cap, and the witch said to the
scarecrow, "what will you do when dorothy has left us?"

"i will return to the emerald city," he replied, "for oz has made me
its ruler and the people like me.  the only thing that worries me is
how to cross the hill of the hammer-heads."

"by means of the golden cap i shall command the winged monkeys to carry
you to the gates of the emerald city," said glinda, "for it would be a
shame to deprive the people of so wonderful a ruler."

"am i really wonderful?" asked the scarecrow.

"you are unusual," replied glinda.

turning to the tin woodman, she asked, "what will become of you when
dorothy leaves this country?"

he leaned on his axe and thought a moment.  then he said, "the winkies
were very kind to me, and wanted me to rule over them after the wicked
witch died.  i am fond of the winkies, and if i could get back again to
the country of the west, i should like nothing better than to rule over
them forever."

"my second command to the winged monkeys," said glinda "will be that
they carry you safely to the land of the winkies.  your brain may not
be so large to look at as those of the scarecrow, but you are really
brighter than he is--when you are well polished--and i am sure you will
rule the winkies wisely and well."

then the witch looked at the big, shaggy lion and asked, "when dorothy
has returned to her own home, what will become of you?"

"over the hill of the hammer-heads," he answered, "lies a grand old
forest, and all the beasts that live there have made me their king.  if
i could only get back to this forest, i would pass my life very happily
there."

"my third command to the winged monkeys," said glinda, "shall be to
carry you to your forest.  then, having used up the powers of the
golden cap, i shall give it to the king of the monkeys, that he and his
band may thereafter be free for evermore."

the scarecrow and the tin woodman and the lion now thanked the good
witch earnestly for her kindness; and dorothy exclaimed:

"you are certainly as good as you are beautiful!  but you have not yet
told me how to get back to kansas."

"your silver shoes will carry you over the desert," replied glinda.
"if you had known their power you could have gone back to your aunt em
the very first day you came to this country."

"but then i should not have had my wonderful brains!" cried the
scarecrow.  "i might have passed my whole life in the farmer's
cornfield."

"and i should not have had my lovely heart," said the tin woodman.  "i
might have stood and rusted in the forest till the end of the world."

"and i should have lived a coward forever," declared the lion, "and no
beast in all the forest would have had a good word to say to me."

"this is all true," said dorothy, "and i am glad i was of use to these
good friends.  but now that each of them has had what he most desired,
and each is happy in having a kingdom to rule besides, i think i should
like to go back to kansas."

"the silver shoes," said the good witch, "have wonderful powers.  and
one of the most curious things about them is that they can carry you to
any place in the world in three steps, and each step will be made in
the wink of an eye.  all you have to do is to knock the heels together
three times and command the shoes to carry you wherever you wish to go."

"if that is so," said the child joyfully, "i will ask them to carry me
back to kansas at once."

she threw her arms around the lion's neck and kissed him, patting his
big head tenderly.  then she kissed the tin woodman, who was weeping in
a way most dangerous to his joints.  but she hugged the soft, stuffed
body of the scarecrow in her arms instead of kissing his painted face,
and found she was crying herself at this sorrowful parting from her
loving comrades.

glinda the good stepped down from her ruby throne to give the little
girl a good-bye kiss, and dorothy thanked her for all the kindness she
had shown to her friends and herself.

dorothy now took toto up solemnly in her arms, and having said one last
good-bye she clapped the heels of her shoes together three times,
saying:

"take me home to aunt em!"

instantly she was whirling through the air, so swiftly that all she
could see or feel was the wind whistling past her ears.

the silver shoes took but three steps, and then she stopped so suddenly
that she rolled over upon the grass several times before she knew where
she was.

at length, however, she sat up and looked about her.

"good gracious!" she cried.

for she was sitting on the broad kansas prairie, and just before her
was the new farmhouse uncle henry built after the cyclone had carried
away the old one.  uncle henry was milking the cows in the barnyard,
and toto had jumped out of her arms and was running toward the barn,
barking furiously.

dorothy stood up and found she was in her stocking-feet.  for the
silver shoes had fallen off in her flight through the air, and were
lost forever in the desert.




24.  home again


aunt em had just come out of the house to water the cabbages when she
looked up and saw dorothy running toward her.

"my darling child!" she cried, folding the little girl in her arms and
covering her face with kisses.  "where in the world did you come from?"

"from the land of oz," said dorothy gravely.  "and here is toto, too.
and oh, aunt em!  i'm so glad to be at home again!"
